---
layout: post
title:  "A New Hope"
date:   2020-11-12 23:50:54 +0700
categories: "Personal"
---

As of November 1st, 2020. I am an unemployed man. I am no longer bound to any professional employment whatsoever. This decision was deliberate and comes from a long period of thinking and reflecting. I think after five year of non-stop work I need to clear my mind of daily 'distractions' and work routines in order to better plan my life ahead.

**Why has it come into this?**

Although I count myself blessed with all I have experienced, earned and learned this past few years, recent experiences in my professional life has rendered me disillusioned. Disillusioned with the state of the industry I'm in, disillusioned with to the role I played in in that industry, and disillusioned with how I lived my life in general. Maybe I'll rant and write all about that later, but for now, at least I'd like to state that I felt like I need some time to re-calibrate my points of view on life, work, relationships and how it would define me.

I've seen my share of ups and downs but these recent developments has struck me the worst, I think. I have a hard time falling asleep, and if I did manage to fall asleep I would be so reluctant to wake up afterwards. I got incensed so easily and frequently did mean things towards my loved ones. I still worked day by day in a sufficient manner to fulfill my duties but never with the drive and strive to excel that I used to pride myself on. I got hospitalized a few times due to what I think to be an psychosomatic condition. I have become too bitter and cynical to my liking. I thought of self-harm a lot. I don't like myself anymore and I want this to stop

In the midst of all this, as I mentioned before, I decided to seek time to explore the world, explore the things I can and can't do, learn new things, to fail, and to learn more about myself. I feel that I haven't done much of that, out of school, not consciously, at least. And through my conversations with people that have achieved far more in life than I am, it is critical to experience that in order to . Unfortunately, for a married man facing the very real prospect of being a part of the sandwich generation, to do this responsibly is a tough endeavour.

A lucky break happened on Q3 of last year. God transpired that I managed to secure a scholarship for higher education and much earlier this year I got accepted into one of the top IT graduate schools in the world on a program that I'm really fond of. This meant a lot as it opened a path in which I could take a time-off responsibly. I would get a monthly stipend that, while still very small compared to my previous income, is sufficient to keep food on the table from month to month. I imagine that the study regime would be less time consuming in comparison to my previous high-stakes full-time work, so I can have the bandwidth to think and reflect on life. The two-year length of the study would mean that I have ample time to try new things and have some failures in between. The wealth of opportunities that become available by joining a world-class institution won't hurt either. This could be my way out.

**How is it going so far?**

It's been three months since I started my studies, and while it didn't go quite as planned (the pandemic forced me to stay at work in a longer timeframe than I had hoped initially and I haven't been able to depart to the US - maybe for a whole year of my study) it has brought significant changes in my life. ***First, I feel like I appreciate what I have in my life more***. I got closer with my wife, and I feel like our relationship got much much better. I got time to re-forge connections with my friends and family. I really feel like I'm blessed with them. And while I used to think that I still need more in a material sense, now with me earning less and having even less to spare, I feel strangely content. Now I know what I need in order to be sufficiently happy.

> Maybe gratitude needs time. And I haven't gave it enough time these last five years.

***Second, I learned that some opportunities would only come to you if you change yourself.*** While the studies has brought me back closer to the things that I had known that I loved to do, most of the time it had introduced me to new things I would not possibly know about by myself. In the process it pushed me to do things that I would not normally do: like cold emailing somebody, introducing myself out of the blue to someone, asking stupid questions without fear, attending talks in topics I know nothing about and finally dropping my guard to ask for help. All this have opened my eyes for new stuff, made me more efficient, introduced me to a whole world of new opportunities, showed me that people are actually decent, and enlightened me on how narrow actually my view of the world was. My wife would tell you that convincing me to do these kinds of things is incredibly difficult - sometimes it took me hours to find something in a shop because I refused outright to ask a shopping assistant, because I felt it would mean that I gave up on myself and I would not be comfortable to ask strangers for help. That's how petty and aloof I could be. I could say I am quite comfortable to do those things now, and I kind of regretted not doing it sooner. People are nice.

> It brought great joy to me, that amidst all of this darkness brought by the pandemic and global unrest, I learned something that is not bleak and actually very positive about humans.

Lastly and maybe most importantly, this experience ***has taught me that time and focus is actually a very very limited resource***. During this time, although I'm unemployed, it doesn't mean I suddenly have nothing to do in my day-to-day life. Apart from my studies (which take a lot of time - more than I previously anticipated) I am still fully committed in building BagiKata, and I take full responsibility for house chores now. There's a moment a few months ago that where I do all this, plus work, plus other commitments that I have since dropped. While I think I can manage all that, now, I realise with the few routines that remain, that some things simply need more time to be truly beneficial to you. Most of the time, adding a little more time and focus on one thing can be a game changer. If you have a lot in your plate, getting of rid of something might mean getting more in return.

> It almost seem like most of the time we get busy for the sake of being busy. And in doing so we take time, the most precious resource we have, for granted.

**What I hope I can get with this**

I think I am genuinely blessed with this opportunity, given that only very few people could enjoy this privilege. I would only hope that this experience would resulted in me being a better person coming out in the other end. I don't repeat my mistakes and would not make this 'break time' into a vicious cycle that will happen again further down my life. The stakes would be too high then. I understand perfectly well that there's still a long road ahead in this experience, and this might be *clichéd* as fuck, but I can't deny the quarter-line mark into this experience has brought me **a new hope** in life.
